This guide explains how to install Umbraco 5 locally and bootstrap the
development process to get you up and running.

This guide uses the following software environment:

Windows 7 64-bit
Git
IIS 7
Visual Studio 2010 SP1
Microsoft MVC 3 Platform
MS SQL Server 2008

This project will live in a repository here:
git@github.com:jeffstagg/UmbracoShell.git
(link active as of May 9, 2012)

Pull the repository to your local machine.

After pulling the repository, we'll set up our site in IIS.
Go into IIS and create a new website with the name of your choice.
The physical path should be set to the location ~/UmbracoShell.Web
If you put the repo in c:\dev\, your selected folder should be:
c:\dev\UmbracoShell\UmbracoShell.Web

Choose to start the site immediately.
Now open your Application Pool and set IIS to run the site as a .Net 4.0 site.

Next we'll need to set up the database. Open SQL Server Management Studio and
connect to your server. Create a new database by right-clicking the Databases
directory and choosing Restore Database. In the dialog, enter a name for your
database in the To Database field. Select to restore from device, and add the
.bak file included in this repository. This database has a user named 'admin'
whose password is 'admin'. You should create a new password for 'admin' after
this database is installed.
Click 'ok' to install the database.

Open your solution in Visual Studio 2010, and build. If any references are
faulty, they will be stored in the ~/ReferenceDLLs directory to re-reference.

Now open your ~/UmbracoShell.Web/connectionString.config and look for the connectionStrings
tag. Under the name "nhibernate.ConnString", set the connection string to connect
to your Umbraco database.

When running in Visual Studio 2010, I've had mixed results in running a local
version of IIS, vs using IIS express through the VS project. Do not use the
default server built into VS; there are problems getting Umbraco to run on it.
If you run this project locally on IIS7, you can begin using the package by
browsing to the URL "//localhost/umbraco". If you get server errors, you may want
to try using IIS Express through Visual Studio 2010. To do so, right-click on the
Umbraco5Base.Web project in the solution explorer, and select Properties.
Choose the Web tab, and under Servers, select the Use Local IIS Web Server
radio button, and choose "Use IIS Express", leaving the Project Url to default.
Now run the project through Visual Studio, and browse to ~/umbraco to begin
using the umbraco admin panel.

When logging into Umbraco, the username / password is "admin" / "admin". You may
now begin building your site.
